Ben Beaulieu
3/10/2025
Week 7 Homework

1. Use Figure 9.82 and show the major steps by drawing tables as in Figure 9.15 or as in Figure 9.19          (or you may choose to implement these algorithms):
- Find the shortest unweighted path from B to all other vertices using the unweighted shortest paths algorithm in 9.3.1.
- Using Dijkstra's algorithm, find the shortest weighted path from A to all other vertices.  

See pdf

2. Earliest Completion Time, Latest Completion Time, Slack Time
- See pdf for activity event graph (google sheet screenshot)
- see pdf for ECT, LTC, and Slack Time (google sheet screenshot)

3. 9.52 
   To model a course navigation that requires the completion of prerequisites, without a limit
   on the number of courses that be taken given the prerequisites, it would be useful to use an
   an event-node graph. Each event in the graph corresponds to the dependencies (prerequisites)
   that a student must complete, in addition to the first event, to work their way towards
   graduation. Dummy edges and nodes can be used where the completion of one dependency
   may open up a pathway to multple, higher-level courses. Each node in the graph, or vertex,
   represents a course that must be completed, and an edge represents a dependency to one or
   more prerequisite courses.

   We can use an improved Dijkstra’s algorithm to solve this problem to find the critical path,
   given the order of the nodes are known ahead of time. This is made possible by topologically
   sorting the data. As such, the running time of the algorithm is O(E+V). We can evaluate the
   critical path by determing where 0 slack time exists among the course plan, and use that path
   to determine the shortest time to graduation.

   9.53
   To model the degrees of Kevin Bacon, or the minimum number of links between shared roles
   in movies among actors can be addressed using the All Pairs Shortest Path algorithm, where
   each node in the graph represents an actor, and the edges represent a connection to adjacent
   nodes (actors) if they shared roles in a movie. The number of edges between the actor of
   interest and the Kevin Bacon node, is the number actors in shared roles that it takes to
   connect them. Ideally, we want to gradually build the intermediate pathways between nodes
   to find Kevin Bacon.
   
   The shortest path algorithm excels in finding in a source node, to all other nodes in
   a graph where the graph is limited in the number of nodes. In this instance, I assume the number of 
   provided actors in their roles have the opportunity to form a dense graph, but wont likely scale that
   way in this application.

   This algorithm runs in O(V^3) time complexity.

